MY 1 first thought was, he lied in every word,	
  That hoary cripple, with malicious eye	
  Askance to watch the working of his lie	
On mine, and mouth scarce able to afford	
Suppression of the glee, that purs’d and scor’d	        5
  Its edge, at one more victim gain’d thereby.	
 
What else should he be set for, with his staff?	
  What, save to waylay with his lies, ensnare	
  All travellers who might find him posted there,	
And ask the road? I guess’d what skull-like laugh	        10
Would break, what crutch ’gin write my epitaph	
  For pastime in the dusty thoroughfare,	
 
If at his counsel I should turn aside	
  Into that ominous tract which, all agree,	
  Hides the Dark Tower. Yet acquiescingly	        15
I did turn as he pointed: neither pride	
Nor hope rekindling at the end descried,	
  So much as gladness that some end might be.	
 
For, what with my whole world-wide wandering,	
  What with my search drawn out thro’ years, my hope	        20
  Dwindled into a ghost not fit to cope	
With that obstreperous joy success would bring,—	
I hardly tried now to rebuke the spring	
  My heart made, finding failure in its scope.	
 
As when a sick man very near to death	        25
  Seems dead indeed, and feels begin and end	
  The tears and takes the farewell of each friend,	
And hears one bid the other go, draw breath	
Freelier outside, (“since all is o’er,” he saith,	
  “And the blow fallen no grieving can amend;”)	        30
 
While some discuss if near the other graves	
  Be room enough for this, and when a day	
  Suits best for carrying the corpse away,	
With care about the banners, scarves and staves,	
And still the man hears all, and only craves	        35
  He may not shame such tender love and stay.	
 
Thus, I had so long suffer’d, in this quest,	
  Heard failure prophesied so oft, been writ	
  So many times among “The Band”—to wit,	
The knights who to the Dark Tower’s search address’d	        40
Their steps—that just to fail as they, seem’d best.	
  And all the doubt was now—should I be fit?	
 
So, quiet as despair, I turn’d from him,	
  That hateful cripple, out of his highway	
  Into the path the pointed. All the day	        45
Had been a dreary one at best, and dim	
Was settling to its close, yet shot one grim	
  Red leer to see the plain catch its estray.	
 
For mark! no sooner was I fairly found	
  Pledged to the plain, after a pace or two,	        50
  Than, pausing to throw backward a last view	
O’er the safe road, ’t was gone; gray plain all round:	
Nothing but plain to the horizon’s bound.	
  I might go on; nought else remain’d to do.	
 
So, on I went. I think I never saw	        55
  Such starv’d ignoble nature; nothing throve:	
  For flowers—as well expect a cedar grove!	
But cockle, spurge, according to their law	
Might propagate their kind, with none to awe,	
  You ’d think; a burr had been a treasure trove.	        60
 
No! penury, inertness and grimace,	
  In the strange sort, were the land’s portion. “See	
  Or shut your eyes,” said Nature peevishly,	
“It nothing skills: I cannot help my case:	
’T is the Last Judgment’s fire must cure this place,	        65
  Calcine its clods and set my prisoners free.”	
 
If there push’d any ragged thistle=stalk	
  Above its mates, the head was chopp’d; the bents	
  Were jealous else. What made those holes and rents	
In the dock’s harsh swarth leaves, bruis’d as to baulk	        70
All hope of greenness? ’T is a brute must walk	
  Pashing their life out, with a brute’s intents.	
 
As for the grass, it grew as scant as hair	
  In leprosy; thin dry blades prick’d the mud	
  Which underneath look’d kneaded up with blood.	        75
One stiff blind horse, his every bone a-stare,	
Stood stupefied, however he came there:	
  Thrust out past service from the devil’s stud!	
 
Alive? he might be dead for aught I know,	
  With that red, gaunt and collop’d neck a-strain,	        80
  And shut eyes underneath the rusty mane;	
Seldom went such grotesqueness with such woe;	
I never saw a brute I hated so;	
  He must be wicked to deserve such pain.	
 
I shut my eyes and turn’d them on my heart.	        85
  As a man calls for wine before he fights,	
  I ask’d one draught of earlier, happier sights,	
Ere fitly I could hope to play my part.	
Think first, fight afterwards—the soldier’s art:	
  One taste of the old time sets all to rights.	        90
